.TH "SLKBUILD" "5" "November 06, 2010" "slkbuild" ""
.SH "NAME"
SLKBUILD \- slkbuild meta\-file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
SLKBUILDs are the meta\-files fed to slkbuild during automatic build script creation. This manual page will give a run down of all the possible options that can be included in a SLKBUILD and an explanation of each.

.SH "MANDATORY VARIABLES AND FUNCTIONS"
.TP 
.B pkgname
The name of the package. Per packaging standards, keep it all lowercase.
.TP 
.B pkgver
The version of the software. No dashes or underscores are allowed, just numbers and dots. For packages created from svn, you can use "r12345", if you checked out revision 12345. For cvs and git packages you can use the current date in the form YEARMONTHDAY, e.g. "20100115". Alpha and beta releases can be designated as such by appending the alpha or beta versions to the package, e.g. "1.0beta5" or "1.0b5", usually in the same way the source package is versioned, keeping in mind that no dashes or underscores are allowed.
.TP 
.B pkgrel
This is the release number of the package. A release number is the number of times this package has been created for this particular pkgver. So the first time you package a piece of software at a particular version, it is pkgrel 1, if you package it again at that exact same version perhaps to use different compile options or some other reason, it is pkgrel 2. However, if the package version changes, you go back to 1. So for example, software foo is at version 1.0 and is packaged, so that is pkgrel 1. It is packaged again at version 1.0 because of bad CXXFLAGS, that one is called pkgrel 2. If the software advances to 2.0, and you package that, the pkgrel goes back to 1, and doesn't advance to 3. It's customary to append the packagers initials to the package release number when building packages that are not official Slackware packages, e.g. "1gv".
.TP 
.B source
This is an array for the source files needed to complete the build. This can be anything from a url to a tarball to a local personally created patch or .desktop file. If you have more than one, just put each one in quotes and make sure there is a space between them and make sure they are inside the parentheses. E.g. source=("http://url.tar.gz" "gcc.path" "thing.desktop"). For cvs, svn and git builds, this variable is not technically necessary, you can leave it empty and fetch the svn or cvs source in build(). Or you can create a source tarball from cvs, svn or git and use that in the source array.
.TP 
.B slackdesc
This is an array where you put the description of the software you are packaging. On the first line put the package name followed by a space a dash and another space and then a short description. On the following 1\-9 lines dependending on how much you need, put a longer explanation. Enclose each line in quotes and make sure each line is under 70 characters, which can be ensured by following the handy ruler provided in the SLKBUILD prototype created by makepkg \-\-generate. For those used to skipping the second line of the slackdesc, the script does that automatically so go straight into the long explanation in the second line.
.TP 
.B build()
This is the function that is executed which actually does all the
compiling. Before this function is ran, the path to the current
directory is assigned the variable $startdir and then $startdir/src is
created. After that anything specified in the source=() array is copied
into $startdir/src and all tarballs are untarred. After that
$startdir/pkg is created. Then this function is run. So the aim of this
function is to put whatever commands that are necessary, be it
./configure, make, make install DESTDIR=$startdir/pkg, or any other
combination of commands, to setup $startdir/pkg correctly. $startdir/pkg
needs to be setup as if it is the / and so everything underneath goes
where it is supposed to. If for instance, you are packaging something
that you want to go in /usr/bin/foo, you would make sure it got to
$startdir/pkg/usr/bin/foo in this function. The environment variable
.BR numjobs
is used in build() to specify the default number of jobs make is going
to use if "make -j $numjobs" is specified in build().

.SH "OPTIONAL VARIABLES AND FUNCTIONS"
.TP 
.B arch
The architecture of the build. You usually don't need to set this yourself, unless you want to create a "noarch" package. For 32-bit architectures, it will be automatically set to "i586" if not explicitly specified otherwise. For 64-bit architectures it will be automatically set to "x86_64". For ARM architectures it will be automatically set to "arm". This will automatically set the correct CFLAGS and CXXFLAGS in any case, "-O2 -march=$arch -mtune=i686" for 32-bits, "-O2 -fPIC" for 64-bits and "-O2" for arm respectively. See also CFLAGS / CXXFLAGS below.
.TP 
.B docs
This is used in almost every package, but might possibly not be used. You fill in whatever documentation that comes with the package, docs=("AUTHORS" "LICENSE" "Changelog") into this variable and they will be moved over appropriately during the build to be included in the package. Don't worry about specifiying any path or the case of the docs because slkbuild does a case insensitive recursive search for whatever you provide. If you have more than one, do like I did above or like you do in source and put each doc in quotes with a space between them.
.TP 
.B options
This is an array that takes certain arguments and affects how the build script operates. The options it takes are 'noextract', 'nostrip','noautodotnew', 'nosrcpack', 'nolinkprepend', 'tgz', 'tbz' and 'tlz'. noextract will prevent the build script from extracting tarballs automatically which is the default behavior. This is useful for those pesky tarbombs which explode all the contents into the current directory when extracted instead of its own dedicated directory and has some other potential uses. If you use this option, you must extract the tarballs yourself in build(). nostrip prevents the execution of the stripping function, can be useful in some applications, that break if they are stripped. noautodotnew is used to remove the automatic dotnew handling in all files in etc. nosrcpack will not include any source files in the resulting package, even if they are specified without a url in the source array. nolinkprepend will create the package by running makepkg without the -p switch, which is the default behaviour. tgz, tbz and tlz set the compression format for the resulting package, the default is txz. If you set more than one of tgz, tbz and tlz, only the first one will be used. whichever is that.
.TP 
.B sourcetemplate
This is a template to where the source will be put online (the ones that don't contain a full url). E.g. sourcetemplate=http://yourepo.org/$pkgname/$pkgver. If sourcetemplate is not set, an .src file will not be created.
.TP 
.B url
A homepage or some other information url about the software.
.TP 
.B dotnew
These are generally configuration files that you don't want to overwrite during install because they will mess up any configuration that the user installing the package already had setup. You put the path that they will be on the filesystem. So let's say you don't want /etc/foo.conf to be overwritten and you are packaging a new version of software foo. You put dotnew=('etc/foo.conf') and that file in the package (in $startdir/pkg) will get moved to foo.conf.new and a test will be put in the doint.sh (script that runs after install) to see whether or not to move it over.
.TP 
.B CFLAGS / CXXFLAGS
The script already assigned appropriate flags for the project according the the specified architecture (see "arch" above) If for some reason those aren't the ones that you want, you can override them using these variables.
.TP 
.B doinst()
This is the script that runs after a package is installed, so put any commands in here that you wan't to be run after the package is installed.

.SH "AUTHOR"
George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>.

Originally written for buildpkg by Matthew Bruenig <matthewbruenig@gmail.com>. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR slkbuild(8)
