slkbuild
George Vlahavas
%%mtime(%m/%d/%Y)

%!target: man
%!encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

slkbuild - automated build script creation tool


= SYNOPSIS =

**slkbuild** [//OPTIONS//]


= DESCRIPTION =

**slkbuild** is a script inspired by makepkg from arch which greatly
simplifies the build process. It parses an easy to create //SLKBUILD//
meta-file and from that creates a conventional build script that follows
all of the slackware packaging standards that can be run on its own. See
**SLKBUILD**(5) for details on how to create proper meta-files.

The advantage of using slkbuild is that it ensures package uniformity
and allows for an easy to edit meta-file in the event that one might
require customization or might need to update the script for new
releases. It also makes the buid process much quicker as downloading the
source, untarring, gzipping man and info pages, stripping binaries,
making sure on graphical applications that the menu entry is compliant
as well as a host of other things are taken care of automatically
freeing up time that would otherwise be consumed by these redundant
tasks.


= OPTIONS =

When run with no arguments, slkbuild sources the //SLKBUILD// meta-file
in the current directory (the //SLKBUILD// file must be in the current
directory), and creates a conventional //build-$pkgname.sh//
script, which you can then inspect or do whatever with and then run.

: **-g**, **--generate** [//prototype//]

Copies over //SLKBUILD// prototypes stored in ///etc/slkbuild//. It
optionally takes a prototype argument which allows for multiple
prototypes to be stored. The prototype argument is the extension of the
//SLKBUILD// prototype stored in ///etc/slkbuild//. For example, if you
ran //slkbuild -g python//, ///etc/slkbuild/SLKBUILD.python// will be
copied over, //slkbuild -g perl//, ///etc/slkbuild/SLKBUILD.perl// will
be copied over etc. If called with no prototype argument,
//slkbuild -g//, it moves over ///etc/slkbuild/SLKBUILD//.

: **-x**, **--execute**
Does everything that running it with no arguments would but afterwards
actually executes the //build-$pkgname.sh// script. Remember that like
running any build script, this option will require you to be root. This
option does log the output of the build script's execution to
//build-$pkgname.log// in the current directory.

: **-c**, **--clean-dirs**
Creates a //build-$pkgname.sh// script that, when it is run, will remove
the //pkg// and //src// directories after building the package.


: **-X**, **--x-and-clean**
Same behaviour as **-x** and **-c** combined together. It additionally
delete the //build-$pkgname.sh// script, after executing it to create
the package.

: **-h, --help**
Displays a help dialog.

: **-v**, **--version**
Outputs the slkbuild version.


= ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES =

When executed, slkbuild will look for the following environment
variables. If they have been specified, they will be used for creating
the package.

: **arch**
This will set the arch used for building the package. See also
**SLKBUILD**(5).

: **ARCH**
Same effect as **arch**.

: **MAKEPKG**
If set, points to an alternative **makepkg** executable. If it is not
set and if the standard **/sbin/makepkg** Slackware tool is not present,
or if it is set to **makepkg_internal**, an internal implementation is
used. This is overriden to the internal implementation if the
**makepkginternal** option within the **SLKBUILD**(5) meta-file is set.

: **numjobs**
This will set the number of jobs used by make in the //build()//
function of the SLKBUILD file. If not specified, the default value is
//1//.

: **PKGEXT**
Sets the package type to use. Could be set to //txz//, //tgz//, //tlz//,
//tbz// or //tbr//. This is overriden if any respective setting within
the **SLKBUILD**(5) meta-file is set.


= WEBSITE =

https://github.com/gapan/slkbuild


= AUTHORS =

slkbuild was forked from buildpkg by George Vlahavas
<vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>.

buildpkg was initially written by Matthew Bruenig
<matthewbruenig~at~gmail~dot~com>.

See the AUTHORS file for a list of other contributors.

Report bugs or suggestions to //vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com//.


= SEE ALSO =

**SLKBUILD**(5)
